Dear HPSG2004/workshop contributor,

I will be editing the HPSG proceedings. At the business meeting in East
Lansing everyone agreed that a timely publication is very important and
the deadline for the final versions will therefore be strict.

I hereby invite you to submit a final version of your contribution to
the electronic proceedings to be published by CSLI Publications.

You can find the proceedings of the previous years at:

http://cslipublications.stanford.edu/HPSG/

The page limit is 20 pages (a4paper, 11pt, title page not included).
The deadline for submission is October 15th.


If you cannot submit your paper, please do see if you could:

1. turn in an abstract anyways (template below)
2. give me any citations or links for the paper (e.g., if it is
   going to appear in a journal or if you have the handout on-line)


Details on formatting are included below.

*IMPORTANT* For each submission we require:

1. a short abstract in plain text (ascii); the template for the
   abstract is included below.  I will format the abstract for you;
   just send us the requested information.

2. the paper in PDF.

   Please submit your paper without page numbering.  We will add in
   the page numbering on the PDF file as we are putting the
   proceedings together.

If you are converting your paper to pdf from LaTeX via ps, then please
make sure to include the specification "times" (this ensures type 1
fonts).  For example:

     \documentclass[11pt,a4paper]{article}
     \usepackage{times}

This ensures that the pdf will come out looking good and will also
allow me to make changes.

LaTeX and bst style files are availible at:

http://cslipublications.stanford.edu/HPSG/5/call.shtml

If you are not using LaTeX please make sure that the text is typeset in justification,
i.e. with the text aligned at both the left-hand side and the right-hand side.

Papers are due by:

    15 October 2004

The sooner you get in your papers, the faster we can get the
proceedings on line.

   If you have any questions, please contact me at:

Stefan.Mueller@cl.uni-bremen.de

I am looking forward to your submissions.

Greetings

    Stefan

----------------------------------------------------------------

BASIC INFO:

  Official On-line Proceedings:
       Deadline: October 15th
       *Required formats*:
                Abstract: plain text following template below
                Paper: PDF

       Send to: Stefan.Mueller@cl.uni-bremen.de

We require a brief abstract in plain text (this can simply be a
paragraph from your introduction [please remove LaTeX mark up, thanks]); 
the paper itself must be in PDF.
These requirements make it simpler to produce an on-line readable
paper.

As with last year, we will produce a large pdf file that includes all
of the papers.  This way, readers can download the entire proceedings
as a book.

If you absolutely cannot do PDF, please let me know as soon as
possible and I will accomodate you in some way: point you to some
reasonable converters, help you with the conversion, etc.

As usual, the proceedings will be registered under an ISSN (it's the
same one for each of the proceedings).  As such, your paper counts as
a publication and, as a result, we have some formatting requirements.

PDF: The pdf format is easy to use and manipulate.  It is also easy to
prepare.  On Unix machines, the command to use is "ps2pdf file.ps" if you
use PostScript specific styles. Otherwise you can use pdflatex instead of latex
(make sure you have A4 format and 11pt Fonts).  With Word, you need to have
PDFwriter installed, then instead of printing to a printer, you can
print to a file and choose the pdf format. If you do not have access
to this conversion program, I can convert Word files for you, but
since Word files tend to be a big bother (fonts lost, tabs lost,
tables freeze up), we would much prefer you to do the conversion.



BASIC FORMATING:

LENGTH: Up to 20 pages long (including references and diagrams).

TITLE PAGE (not included in the 20);
Make sure this is on a separate page with all lines centered:

                    TITLE
                   author

                 affiliation

         Proceedings of the HPSG04 Conference

Center for Computational Linguistics, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven

              Stefan Müller (Editor)

                   2004

              CSLI Publications

          http://csli-publications.stanford.edu/

ABSTRACT: We encourage the inclusion of a short (one paragraph)
          abstract just after the title page.

(no pagebreak before the main text, please)


ABSTRACT INSTRUCTIONS:

Please send us the following information; use only plain text (ascii):

1. Paper Title
2. Author Name(s)
3. Email-address(es)
4. Text of Abstract




