// Author1 & Author 2 # Affiliation1 & Affiliation2 # Title                                                            # date              # status # abstract

Brown, Dunstan  & Evans, Roger # University of Surrey & University of Brighton # Inflectional Defaults and Principal Parts: an Empirical Investigation # October 16, 2010 # #
We describe an empirical method to explore and contrast the roles of default and principal part
information in the differentiation of inflectional classes. We use an unsupervised machine learning
method to classify Russian nouns into inflectional classes, first with full paradigm information,
and then with particular types of information removed. When we remove default information, shared
across classes, we expect there to be little effect on the classification. In contrast when we
remove principal part information we expect there to be a more detrimental effect on classification
performance. Our data set consists of paradigm listings of the 80 most frequent Russian nouns,
generated from a formal theory which allows us to distinguish default and principal part
information. Our results show that removal of forms classified as principal parts has a more
detrimental effect on the classification than removal of default information. However, we also find
that there are differences within the defaults and principal parts, and we suggest that these may in
part be attributable to stress patterns.


Corbett, Greville G. # University of Surrey # Classic Problems at the Syntax-Morphology Interface:<br> Whose are They? # October 2010 # #
There are fascinating problems at the syntax-morphology interface which tend to be missed. I offer a
brief explanation of why that may be happening, then give a Canonical Typology perspective, which
brings these problems to the fore. I give examples showing that the phenomena could in principle be
treated either by syntactic rules (but these would be complex) or within morphology (but this would
involve redundancy). Thus `non-autonomous' case values, those which have no unique form but are
realized by patterns of syncretism, could be handled by a rule of syntax (one with access to other
features, such as number) or by morphology (with resulting systematic syncretisms). I concentrate on
one of the most striking sets of data, the issue of prepositional government in Latvian, and outline
a solution within Network Morphology using structured case values.


Crysmann, Berthold # Universität Bonn and Universität des Saarlandes # Discontinuous Negation in Hausa # October 23, 2010 # #
Investigating the morphological and syntactic properties of discontinuous negative marking in Hausa,
I shall suggest a constructional approach involving edge inflection, accounting simultaneously for
the morphologically bound nature of the initial marker and its interaction with the TAM system,
haplology of the final marker, and wide scope over coordination.  I will argue that the degree of
morphological integration of initial markers and haplology of final markers both favour an edge
feature approach over phrasal affixation.


Léonard, Jean-Léo  & Kihm, Alain # Paris 3, IUF & CNRS, Paris 7  # Verb Inflection in Chiquihuitlán Mazatec: a Fragment and a PFM Approach # October 15, 2010 # #
Mazatec is an Eastern Otomanguean language spoken by about 200,000 people, located in the
northeastern part of the state of Oaxaca, Mexico. The present paper aims to shed new light on
Mazatec verb inflection within the framework of current research on Otomanguean phonology and
morphology. We intend to show that, despite bewildering apparent complexity, mainly due to extensive
morphophonological processes, Mazatec inflectional morphology is in fact rather simple and
regular. Realizational approaches, in particular Paradigm Function Morphology (PFM) seem especially
adequate to capture such regularities.


Singh, Smriti  & Sarma, Vaijayanthi M # Indian Institute of Technology Bombay # Hindi Noun Inflection and Distributed Morphology # October 18, 2010 # #
This paper primarily presents an analysis of nominal inflection in Hindi within the framework of
Distributed Morphology (Halle & Marantz 1993, 1994 and Harley and Noyer 1999). Müller (2002, 2003,
2004) for German, Icelandic and Russian nouns respectively and Weisser (2006) for Croatian nouns
have also used Distributed Morphology (henceforth DM) to analyze nominal inflectional morphology.
This paper will discuss in detail the inflectional categories and inflectional classes, the
morphological processes operating at syntax, the distribution of vocabulary items and the
readjustment rules required to describe Hindi nominal inflection. Earlier studies on Hindi
inflectional morphology (Guru 1920, Vajpeyi 1958, Upreti 1964, etc.) were greatly influenced by the
Paninian tradition (classical Sanskrit model) and work with Paninian constructs such as root and
stem. They only provide descriptive studies of Hindi nouns and verbs and their inflections without
discussing the role or status of affixes that take part in inflection. The discussion on the
mechanisms (morphological operations and rules) used to analyze or generate word forms are missing
in these studies. In addition, these studies do not account for syntax-morphology or
morphology-phonology mismatches that show up in word formation. One aim of this paper is to present
an economical way of forming noun classes in Hindi as compared to other traditional methods,
especially gender and stem ending based or paradigm based methods that give rise to a large number
of inflectional paradigms. Using inflectional class information to analyse the various forms of
Hindi nouns, we can reduce the number of affixes and word-generation and readjustment rules that are
required to describe nominal inflection. The analysis also helps us in developing a morphological
analyzer for Hindi. The small set of rules and fewer inflectional classes are of great help to
lexicographers and system developers. To the best of our knowledge, the analysis of Hindi
inflectional morphology based on DM and its implementation in a Hindi morphological analyzer has not
been done before. The methods discussed here can be applied to other Indian languages for analysis
as well as word generation.


Spencer, Andrew # University of Essex # Lexical Relatedness and the Lexical Entry &ndash; a Formal Unification # October 13, 2010 # #
Based on the notion of a lexicon with default inheritance, I address the problem of how to provide a
template for lexical representations that allows us to capture the relatedness between inflected
word forms and canonically derived lexemes within a broadly realizational-inferential model of
morphology. To achieve this we need to be able to represent a whole host of intermediate types of
lexical relatedness that are much less frequently discussed in the literature. These include
transpositions such as deverbal participles, in which a word's morphosyntactic class changes
(e.g. verb ⇒ adjective) but no semantic predicate is added to the semantic representation and the
derived word remains, in an important sense, a "form" of the base lexeme (e.g. the 'present
participle form of the verb'). I propose a model in which morphological properties are inherited by
default from syntactic properties and syntactic properties are inherited from semantic properties,
such as ontological category (the Default Cascade). Relatedness is defined in terms of a Generalized
Paradigm Function (perhaps in reality a relation), a generalization of the Paradigm Function of
Paradigm Function Morphology (Stump 2001). The GPF has four components which deliver respectively
specifications of a morphological form, syntactic properties, semantic representation and a lexemic
index (LI) unique to each individuated lexeme in the lexicon. In principle, therefore, the same
function delivers derived lexemes as inflected forms. In order to ensure that a newly derived lexeme
of a distinct word class can be inflected I assume two additional principles. First, I assume an
Inflectional Specifiability Principle, which states that the form component of the GPF (which
defines inflected word forms of a lexeme) is dependent on the specification of the lexeme's
morpholexical signature, a declaration of the properties that the lexeme is obliged to inflect for
(defined by default on the basis of morpholexical class). I then propose a Category Erasure
Principle, which states that 'lower' attributes are erased when the GPF introduces a non-trivial
change to a 'higher' attribute (e.g. a change to the semantic representation entails erasure of
syntactic and morphological information). The required information is then provided by the Default
Cascade, unless overridden by specific declarations in the GPF. I show how this model can account
for a variety of intermediate types of relatedness which cannot easily be treated as either
inflection or derivation, and conclude with a detailed illustration of how the system applies to a
particularly interesting type of transposition in the Samoyedic language Sel'kup, in which a noun is
transposed to a similitudinal adjective whose form is in paradigmatic opposition to case-marked noun
forms, and which is therefore a kind of inflection.


Stump, Greg # University of Kentucky# Paradigm templates, stem patterns and lexical representations # October 16, 2010 # no #
One apparent choice to be made in morphological theory is the choice between (a) defining a
language's morphology with RULES OF EXPONENCE, which deduce the word form realizing a given
cell in a lexeme's paradigm from the stem and morphosyntactic property set associated with that cell,
as in (i); and (b) defining a language's morphology with IMPLICATIVE RULES, which deduce the word
form realizing a given cell in a lexeme's paradigm from the word forms realizing one or more other
cells in that paradigm, as in (ii).
<ol style="list-style-type:lower-roman;">
<li>The cell (Xa, {CASE:locative, NUM:singular}) is realized as Xe.
<li>If Xena is a lexeme's instrumental singular form, then Xe its locative singular form.
</ol>
Definitions of types (a) and (b) suggest rather different approaches to lexical representation; in
particular, (a) suggests that a lexeme's lexical representation includes a specification of its stem, while
(b) suggests that its lexical representation consists of the word form(s) realizing one or more cells in
its paradigm.
<p>
I argue that (a) and (b) needn't be seen as alternatives: that if the defaults and overrides constituting
a language's system of inflection classes are defined in a suitably general way, then rules of
exponence and implicative rules coexist as theorems of this definition. I propose that general
definitions of this sort take the form of a default inheritance hierarchy whose nodes are inflection
classes, and that each inflection class is itself the pairing of a PARADIGM TEMPLATE with a pattern of
stem alternation. I illustrate with examples from the declensional morphology of Sanskrit.


Tribout, Delphine # LLF and Université Paris Diderot-Paris 7 # How Many Conversions from Verb to Noun Are There in French? # October 2010 # #
In this paper, I discuss verb to noun conversion in French. The properties of
the input verb and the output noun are presented and a formal representation is
proposed using the SBCG framework. The use of such a formalism based on
constraints and multiple inheritance highlights the difficulties in defining
what exactly is a conversion rule. I propose that the different properties of
the input verb and the output noun can be thought of as different dimensions of
classification, which characterize the verb to noun conversion rule.


