HPSG 2012 Call for Papers

For several reasons and requests, we once again extend the deadline for the HPSG-2012 until April 20. Note that this is the ultimate deadline. (updated on 04/14/2012)


The 19th International Conference on Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar, HPSG-2012, will take place in July 18-21, 2012, at Chungnam National University in Daejeon, located in the center of South Korea.

Call for papers
Abstracts are solicited for presentations which address linguistic, foundational, or computational issues relating to the framework of Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar.

Invited Speakers
Hans Uszkoreit (Saarland University & DFKI, Germany)
Frank Van Eynde (University of Leuven, Belgium) (updated on July 2, 2012)

Conference Format
There will be two sessions: a main session, with 30 minute presentations, and a poster session. The poster session is intended as a means of encouraging the presentation of work that is not yet fully developed.

Prospective speakers may submit either a 5 page abstract for the main session, or a 2 page abstract for the poster session. Abstracts submitted initially for the main session may be accepted, at the discretion of the program committee, for presentation in the poster session instead.

Related Events
The conference will take place in Daejeon, South Korea, on 18-21, July 2011. It will be preceded by a day of tutorials for "Experimental Design for Linguists" on 18 July given by Philip Hofmeister (University of Essex) and a workshop on Ellipsis and Formal Grammar on 19 July. There is a separate call for papers for the workshop.

Submissions:
We will use an online submission system. All abstracts should be submitted via Linguist List's Easy Abstracts System: http://linguistlist.org/confcustom/hpsg2012.

Abstracts will be reviewed anonymously by at least two reviewers. Abstracts should not include the authors' names and authors are asked to avoid self-references. The Program Committee reserves the right to reassign accepted papers from the main conference to the workshop, and vice versa.

Please direct any questions to the Program Committee Chair, Jong-Bok Kim, at hpsg2012program@gmail.com.

Important Dates
Abstract submission deadline: March 31, 2012
Extended abstract submission deadline: April 10, 2012
Extended abstract submission deadline: April 20, 2012
Notification of acceptance: April 27, 2012
Conference: July 18-21, 2012
Camera-ready version submission deadline: October 15, 2012 (updated on 04/14/2012)

Program Committee
 	
Anne Abeillé
Doug Arnold
Emily M. Bender
Francis Bond
Oliver Bonami
Bob Borsley
Rui Chaves
Ann Copestake
Berthold Crysmann
Elisabet Engdahl
Dan Flickinger
Jong-Bok Kim (Chair)
Tibor Kiss
Jean-Pierre Koenig
Valia Kordoni
Bob Levine
Laura Michaelis
Stefan Müller
Tsuneko Nakazawa
Jeff Runner
Ivan Sag
Manfred Sailer
Frank Van Eynde
Gert Webelhuth
Eun-Jung Yoo
Stephen Wechsler
Shuichi Yatabe 	

Publication

The conference proceedings will be published online by CSLI publications. A call for contributions
to the publications will be issued after the conference. Proceedings of previous conferences are
available at http://csli-publications.stanford.edu/HPSG/. The final deadline for receipt of written
versions of conference papers is October 15, 2012 (updated on 04/14/2012).

Submission Web Site
http://linguistlist.org/confcustom/hpsg2012

Conference Web Site
http://linguistics.cnu.ac.kr/hpsg/

Local Organizing Committee Chair
Byong-Rae Ryu (Chungnam National University, hpsg2012@gmail.com)

Supported by
Department of Linguistics, Chungnam National University (CNU)
Center for Speech-Language Pathology (CSLP), CNU
Center for Language and Communication Research (CLCR), CNU
The Korean Society for Language and Information (KSLI)
Korea Research Foundation (KRF)
Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute (ETRI)
Korea Institute of Science and Technology Information (KISTI) 

