Call for papers

Abstracts are solicited for presentations which address linguistic, foundational, or computational issues relating to the framework of Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar.
Invited Speakers

Olivier Bonami (Université Paris-Sorbonne)
Thomas Wasow (Stanford University)
Conference Format

There will be two sessions: a main session, with 30 minute presentations, and a poster session. The poster session is intended as a means of encouraging the presentation of work that is not yet fully mature.

Prospective speakers may submit either a 5 page abstract for the main session, or a 2 page abstract for the poster session. Abstracts submitted initially for the main session may be accepted, at the discretion of the program committee, for presentation in the poster session instead.
Venue and Related Events

The HPSG Conference will take place in at the University of Washington in Seattle, WA on 24-25 August 2011. It will be preceded by a day of tutorials on 22 August, and a workshop on Information Structure and Formal Grammar on 23 August. There will be a separate call for papers for the workshop.

The tutorials will be given by Nicholas Asher (Toulouse) and Johanna Nichols (UC Berkeley).
Submissions

We will use an online submission system. All abstracts should be submitted via: http://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=hpsg2011

Abstracts should be in PDF format.

Please direct any questions to the Program Committee Chair: hpsg2011@easychair.org

All abstracts will be reviewed anonymously by at least two reviewers. Abstracts should not include the authors' names, and authors are asked to avoid self-references.
Important Dates

Abstract submission deadline: 1 April 2011
Notification of acceptance: 20 May 2011
Conference: 22-25 August 2011
Publication

The conference proceedings will be published online by CSLI Publications. Only papers presented in the main session will be included in the proceedings.

A call for contributions to the proceedings will be issued after the conference. Proceedings of previous conferences are available at:
http://csli-publications.stanford.edu/HPSG/.

The final deadline for receipt of written versions of conference papers is 15 November 2011.
Program Committee

Anne Abeillé
Doug Arnold
Emily M. Bender
Philippe Blache
Olivier Bonami
Robert Borsley
Gosse Bouma
Rui Chaves
Berthold Crysmann (chair)
Dan Flickinger
Danièle Godard
Lars Hellan
Anke Holler
Jong-Bok Kim
Jean-Pierre Koenig
Valia Kordoni
Anna Kupsc
Robert Levine
Rob Malouf
Nurit Melnik
Philip Miller
Stefan Müller
Gerald Penn
Adam Przepiorkowski
Frank Richter
Ivan Sag
Manfred Sailer
Jesse Tseng
Frank Van Eynde
Gert Webelhuth
Stephen Wechsler
Shuichi Yatabe
Conference Web Site

http://depts.washington.edu/hpsg2011/
Local Arrangements Chair

Emily M. Bender
Links

For more information about HPSG, see, for example:

    http://hpsg.stanford.edu/
    http://www.ling.ohio-state.edu/research/hpsg/ 

For more information on HPSG conferences:
http://www.essex.ac.uk/linguistics/external/HPSG/

