// Author1 & Author 2 # Affiliation1 & Affiliation2 # Title                                                            # date              # status # abstract


Bjerre, Anne # University of Southern Denmark # Topic and focus in local subject extractions in Danish # November 16, 2011 # #
The present paper proposes an analysis of the asymmetrical distribution of der, 'there', in embedded
interrogative and relative clauses, respectively, in standard Danish. The analysis sets itself apart
from previous analyses in integrating information structural constraints. We will show that the
discourse function of the extracted subject in the clauses in question determines whether der
insertion takes place in standard Danish. The analysis will further be shown to support the position
that der in interrogative and relative clauses is an expletive subject filler, and that from an
information structural point of view, the der in existential, presentational, passives and relative
clauses is indeed the same der.

De Kuthy, Kordula  & Meurers, Detmar # 0000-0003-2318-3754 & 0000-0002-9740-7442 # Universität Tübingen # Integrating GIVENness into a structured meaning approach in HPSG # November 16, 2011 # #
In this article we show how the HPSG approach to information structure of De Kuthy (2002) and De Kuthy and Meurers (2003)
can be extended to capture givenness (Schwarzschild, 1999) and make the right predictions for so-called deaccenting of given information,
a widespread phenomenon not previously dealt with in HPSG.

Gazdik, Anna # Université Paris Diderot-Paris 7, LLF #On the Syntax-Discourse Interface in Hungarian # November 16, 2011 # no #
In this paper, I investigate the syntax-discourse interface in Hungarian and propose the first steps
of its formalization in the framework of Lexical-Functional Grammar. Concerning the syntax, I
propose a flat structure in Hungarian, in which the preverbal domain is determined by the
information structure. I examine the distribution of elements in the topic field and the Prominent
Preverbal Position (PPP), and point out that they can be filled differently depending on the
discourse context of the utterance. I also observe that the information structure used in the
mainstream LFG literature is not general enough to accommodate two important discourse functions:
the contrastive topic and the hocus. This is why a new architecture is put forth, building on the
common features and not the discourse functions themselves, that can account for the Hungarian data
more adequately. The syntax-discourse interface is then exposed via the mappings between the
constituent and information structures.


Kim, Jong-Bok # Kyung Hee University # Floating Numeral Classifiers in Korean: A Thematic-Structure Perspective # November 17, 2011 # # 
The syntactic and semantic complexity of the so-called numeral classifier
(NUM-CL) constructions in languages like Korean (Japanese and Chinese as
well) has much challenged theoretical as well as computational approaches.
Among several types of the NUM-CL constructions, the most complicated
type includes the so-called FQ (floated numeral classifier/quantifier) construction
where the NUM-CL `floats' away from its antecedent. This paper,
couched upon the non-derivational VP-modifier view, shows that in addition
to the grammatical function of the host NP and types of the main predicate,
properties of the intervening expression between the FQ and its host NP also
play an important role in licensing the FQ's distribution. In particular, we
show that the FQ introduces new information in discourse and as default sets
off rheme in the thematic structure. This functional analysis can provide an
answer to several puzzling contrasts we observe in the distribution of the FQ.

Light, Caitlin # University of Pennsylvania # The information structure of subject extraposition in Early New High German # November 16, 2011 # # 
This paper investigates the information-structural characteristics of extraposed subjects in Early
New High German (ENHG). Based on new quantitative data from a parsed corpus of ENHG, I will argue
that unlike objects, subjects in ENHG have two motivations for extraposing. First, subjects may
extrapose in order to receive narrow focus, which is the pattern Bies (1996) has shown for object
extraposition in ENHG. Secondly, however, subjects may extrapose in order to receive a default
sentence accent, which is most visible in the case of presentational constructions. This motivation
does not affect objects, which may achieve the same prosodic goal without having to extrapose. The
study has two major consequences: (1) subject extraposition in ENHG demonstrates that there is not
necessarily a one-to-one correspondence between syntactic structure and information structural
effect (cf. Féry 2007); and (2) the overall phenomenon of DP extraposition in ENHG fits into a
broader set of crosslinguistic focus phenomena which demonstrate a subject-object asymmetry
(cf. Hartmann and Zimmermann 2007, Skopeteas and Fanselow 2010), raising important questions about
the relationship between argument structure and information structural notions.

Marandin, Jean-Marie # CNRS, Université Paris Diderot # Subject Inversion in French. The Limits of Information Structure # November 16, 2011 # #
My objective here is to assess the relevance of information structural notions for analyzing subject 
inversion in French. Subject inversion is not a unified phenomenon. In fact, there are three distinct 
constructions featuring an inverted subject. I show that the sentences do not have the same informational 
potential (the type of focus-ground articulation they are compatible with) depending on the construction 
they abide by. I propose a contextual factor &ndash; the informational solidarity between the verb and its first 
argument &ndash; to account for those differences. Then, I show that the three constructions share a common 
feature that pertains to a completely different dimension: the perspective chosen to describe the situation. I 
adopt Langacker's notion of absolute construal to characterize it. Finally, I present another common 
feature: the blocking of the referential anchoring of the referent of indefinite and partitive NPs.

Song, Sanghoun  & Bender, Emily M. # University of Washington # Using Information Structure to Improve Transfer-based MT # November 16, 2011 # #
This paper hypothesizes that transfer-based machine translation systems can be improved by encoding
information structure in both the source and target grammars, and preserving information structure
in the transfer stage. We explore how information structure can be represented within the HPSG/MRS
formalism (Pollard and Sag, 1994; Copestake et al., 2005) and how it can help refine multilingual
MT. Building upon that framework, we provide a sample translation between English and Japanese and
check the feasibility of the proposals in small-scale translation systems built with the
HPSG/MRS-based LOGON MT infrastructure (Oepen et al., 2007). Our experiment shows the information
structure-based MT system that we propose in this paper reduces the number of translations 75.71%
for Japanese and 80.23% for Korean. The dramatic reductions in the number of translations is
expected to make a contribution to our HPSG/MRS-based MT in terms of latency as well as accuracy.

Stevens, Jon  # University of Pennsylvania # Information Structure as Parallel Tree Building # November 16 2011 # #
This paper presents a Synchronous Tree Adjoining Grammar (STAG) account of Information Structure,
whereby Givenness-marking requires a link between nodes on a syntactic tree and LF nodes whose
interpretation is supplied by a contextually determined set of Given semantic objects.  By
hypothesis, the interpretation of linked nodes bypasses a default interpretation principle that
requires pragmatic reasoning to disambiguate elements and enrich semantic material.  Thus,
interpreting Given elements requires less cognitive effort than Focused elements.  This, combined
with some established insights from Game-theoretic pragmatics, yields empirical advantages over
more traditional semantic/pragmatic analyses of equal simplicity.



