// Author1 & Author 2 # Affiliation1 & Affiliation2 # Title                                                            # date              # status # abstract

Bjerre, Anne & Bjerre, Tavs # 0000-0003-1622-5266 & mailed # University of Southern Denmark & Aarhus University, Denmark # Pseudocoordination in Danish # 2007-10-15 # #
In this paper we propose an analysis of Danish pseudocoordination constructions. The analysis is
based on a hybrid phrase hierarchy where phrase types are assumed to be subtypes of types that cut
across the traditional division of phrasal types, allowing the phrase type of pseudocoordinations to
be a subtype of both coordinate phrases and headed phrases, and consequently inherit properties from
both types. The analysis is linearization-based. We further develop a set of constraints on the
phrasal types in the hierarchy.
<p>
The hybrid phrase hierarchy and the set of constraints on the various types in the hierarchy explain
why, on the one hand, pseudocoordinations contain conjunctions and the conjuncts must have the same
form and tense, and on the other, have a fixed order, allow extraction out of the second conjunct,
do not allow overt subjects in the second conjunct and allow transitive verbs to appear in
there-constructions.


Bonami, Olivier & Godard, Danièle # 0000-0003-0688-3855 & mailed # Université Paris-Sorbonne & LLF & CNRS & U. Paris 7 # Integrating linguistic dimensions:<br> The scope of adverbs # 2007-10-20 # #
Three distinctions seem relevant for the scope properties of adverbs: their function (adjuncts
or complements), their prosody (incidental or integrated) and their lexical semantics (parenthetical
or non parenthetical). We propose an analysis in which the scope of French adverbs is aligned with
their syntactic properties, relying on a view of adjuncts as loci for quantification, a
linearization approach to the word order, and an explicit modelling of dialogue.


Chaves, Rui P. & Paperno, Denis # 0000-0003-0820-6145 & 0000-0002-8889-4066 # University of Lisbon & Lomonosov Moscow State University # On the Russian hybrid coordination construction # 2007-10-16 # #
This paper discusses a non-constituent coordination construction that occurs
in Russian in which constituents with different syntactic functions
and different thematic roles are conjoined.
These conjuncts are co-arguments of the same head and are subject
to a number of idiosyncrasies.
<p>
We consider several alternative analysis of the phenomena, and conclude
that these are unable to account for the full range of the facts. Thus,
even though these  conjuncts do not form a semantic unit, there
is evidence that they do form a kind of coordination structure.
The  phenomena are challenging for any theory of grammar,
but the syntax-semantics account that we provide involves
minimal changes to standard HPSG architecture.


Coulter, Lori # mailed # University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign # A semantic interpretation of modality in counterfactual conditionals # 2007-10-22 # #
This paper provides a background on the role of world knowledge in disambiguating modals and
proposes treating the disambiguation of counterfactuals as a slightly more tractable sub-case of the
general problem. Using a model theoretic possible worlds approach, counterfactuals are disambiguated
with respect to a world of evaluation resembling classic Formal Semantic treatments (e.g., Kratzer
1977, 1981, 1989; Lewis 1973; Veltman 2005). The world, which provides a context of evaluation, is
located through the interaction of the antecedent and consequent propositions with world knowledge
axioms. This approach to modal disambiguation provides a connection between a grammar and the type
of inferences typically handled in Knowledge Representation Systems (e.g., Hobbs et al. 1990) in a
limited domain. The model theoretic semantics are linked with typed feature structures in an HPSG
syntax (Pollard and Sag 1994). This grammar is implemented in TRALE, Penn's (2004) Prolog-based
framework for typed feature structure grammar development. The compositional semantics in TRALE is
specified in Penn and Richters' (2004, 2005) Constraint Language for Lexical Resource Semantics
(CLLRS). This semantic component provides a semantic parse in which heads and arguments are combined
systematically and the scope of negation or quantification can be accurately reflected. In the case
of counterfactuals, the CLLRS semantic parse is passed to a model-theoretic interpreter. The mapping
between the CLLRS semantic parse and the well-formed formulas of the model is defined by checking
the parseability of the formula in the compositional semantics. Sets of possible worlds interact
with constraints on world knowledge and constraints defining counterfactual validity. The truth
value for a counterfactual is returned to the grammar relative to a context of evaluation. The
results of counterfactual evaluation are returned in a form consistent with the grammar's internal
compositional semantics. By the method described above, the interpreter provides a grammar-external
component in which inferences involving world knowledge have the potential to be more efficiently
evaluated. Through the development of model-checking techniques, for instance, it could be shown
whether or not well-formed formulas and constraints hold in larger models and move towards capturing
more fine-grained modal inferences in a larger domain.


Crysmann, Berthold & von Böselager, Philipp # 0000-0003-0230-502X & unknown # DFKI, Universität des Saarlandes, Universität Bonn & Universität zu Köln # Using an HPSG grammar for the generation of prosody # 2007-10-16 # #
<p>In this paper, we report on an experiment showing how
the introduction of prosodic information from detailed syntactic
structures into synthetic speech leads to better disambiguation of
structurally ambiguous sentences. Using modifier attachment (MA)
ambiguities and subject/object fronting (OF) in German as test cases,
we show that prosody which is automatically generated from deep
syntactic information provided by an HPSG generator can lead to
considerable disambiguation effects, and can even override a strong
semantics-driven bias. The architecture used in the experiment,
consisting of the LKB generator running a large-scale grammar for
German, a syntax-prosody interface module, and the speech synthesis
system MARY is shown to be a valuable platform for testing hypotheses
in intonation studies.


Kropp Dakubu, Mary Esther & Hellan, Lars & Beermann, Dorothee # no & 0000-0003-3043-120X & 0000-0002-8906-5235 # University of Ghana & NTNU, Trondheim & NTNU, Trondheim # Verb sequencing constraints in Ga:
Serial verb constructions and the extended verb complex # 2007-09-27 # #
The paper examines two verb sequencing constructions in Ga: the Serial
Verb Construction (SVC) and the Extended Verb Complex (EVC). The former
is an instance of a commonly recognized construction, the latter is
typically found in the Volta Basin area of West Africa. EVCs are
sequences of verbs functioning as single verb units relative to the
syntax, but with an internal structure much like syntactic
complementation. Both constructions show agreement of aspect and mood
marking throughout the sequence, but with differences in exponence: in
an SVC all Vs expose such marking, in an EVC only a limited (down to
one) number of verbs, depending on the inflectional category. The paper
presents the basic facts, based on works by Dakubu (2002, 2004, to
appear), and gives an HPSG account of their morphology, syntax and
semantics. The analysis is sustained by a grammar of the phenomena
implemented with the 'Linguistic Knowledge Builder' (LKB), an
engineering platform for natural language processing.


Haugereid, Petter # 0000-0003-3077-8983 # NTNU Trondheim # Decomposed phrasal constructions # 2007-10-16 # #
<p>
In this paper I suggest an interface level of semantic representations, that on the one hand
corresponds to morpho-syntactic entities such as phrase structure rules, function words and
inflections, and that on the other hand can be mapped to lexical semantic representations that one
ultimately needs in order to give good predictions about argument frames of lexical items. This
interface level consists of basic constructions that can be decomposed into five sub-constructions
(arg1-role, arg2-role ... arg5-role). I argue in favour of phrasal constructions
in order to account for altering argument frames and maybe also coercion without having to use
lexical rules or multiple lexical entries.


Henri, Fabiola & Abeillé, Anne # 0000-0002-2491-1568 & 0000-0002-9187-2298 # University Paris 7 # The syntax of copular constructions in Mauritian # 2007-10-16 # # 
<p>
This paper examines the syntactic behavior of the Mauritian copula in predicative
and extracted sentences. As it is the case in many languages, the Mauritian
copula ete is absent in certain constructions: It only appears in extraction contexts.
Our aim is to show that the postulation of a null copula, which has been proposed
in various analyses, is inadequate for the Mauritian data. The phenomenon, as
it is argued, rather lends itself to a strictly construction-based analysis within the
framework of HPSG and is based on the distribution of weak pronouns and TAM
markers.


Kaufmann, Tobias & Pfister, Beat # mailed & mailed # ETH Zürich # Applying licenser rules to a grammar with continuous constituents # 2007-10-16 # #
Licenser rules have originally been introduced in Müller (1999) as
a part of a grammar based on discontinuous constituents. We propose
licenser rules as a means to avoid underspecified empty elements in
grammars with continuous constituents. We applied them to a verb
movement analysis of the German main clause with right sentence
bracket and to complement extraposition. To reduce the number of
unnecessary hypotheses, we extended the licenser rule concept with a
licenser binding technique. We compared the licenser rule approach to
an approach based on underspecified traces with respect to processing
performance. In our experiment, the use of licenser rules reduced the
parse time by a factor of 13.5.


Kim, Jong-Bok & Yang, Jaehyung # 0000-0003-3286-0446 & mailed # Kyung Hee University & Kangnam University # Syntax and semantics of Korean numeral classifier constructions # 2007-10-22 # #
The so-called floating quantifier constructions in languages like
Korean display intriguing properties whose successful processing can
prove the robustness of a parsing system. This paper shows that a
constraint-based analysis, in particular couched upon the framework
of HPSG, can offer us an efficient way of analyzing these
constructions together with proper semantic representations. It also
shows how the analysis has been successfully implemented in the LKB
(Linguistic Knowledge Building) system.


Manning, Christopher # 0000-0001-6155-649X # Stanford University # Linguistic strip mining meets deep linguistic processing # # no #


Melnik, Nurit # 0000-0002-0610-915X # University of Haifa # Extending partial pro-drop in modern Hebrew: A comprehensive analysis # 2007-10-16 # #
Modern Hebrew is considered to be a 'partial pro-drop language'. Traditionally, the distinction
between cases where pro-drop is licensed and those in which it is prohibited, was based on the
person and tense features of the verb: 1st and 2nd person pronominal subjects may be omitted in
past and future tense. This generalization, however, was found to be false in a number of papers,
each discussing a subset of the data. Thus, contrary to conventional wisdom, dropped 3rd person
pronouns subjects do occur in the language in particular contexts.
<p>
Identifying these contexts by way of a corpus-based survey is the initial step taken in this study.
Subsequently, a careful syntactic analysis of the data reveals broad generalizations which have not
been made to date. Thus, what was initially assumed to be a uniform phenomenon of 3rd person
pro-drop turns out to be manifested in three distinct types of constructions. Finally, the proposed
HPSG-based analysis incorporates insights concerning locality, correlations between finite and non-finite
control, non-canonical elements, and binding.


Norcliffe, Elisabeth # 0000-0001-8646-6474 # Stanford University # Constructing Spanish complex predicates # 2007-10-17 # #
Abeillé and Godard (2007) describe a variety of Spanish whose complex predicates differ structurally
from the more familiar flat VP type of complex predicate common to other varieties of Spanish and
Romance. I present a verb cluster analysis of this variety which both captures these structural
differences, and at the same time preserves those features that are common across both construction
types. Coupled with a simple morphological treatment of affixation, this analysis predicts the range
of 'clitic climbing' facts. The parsimony of the affixation analysis is afforded by an alternative
approach to the constraints on reflexive affix distribution in Spanish complex predicates. I depart
radically from previous morpho-lexical approaches to the phenomenon, instead showing how the
constraints follow from independently motivated binding principles. This approach not only handles
more of the Spanish data, but also has the potential to provide a unified account of the phenomenon
across Romance.


Sailer, Manfred # 0000-0002-1693-8859 # Universität Göttingen # NPI licensing, intervention and discourse representation structures in HPSG # 2007-10-16 # #
Negative Polarity Items (NPI) are expressions such as English 'ever'
and 'lift a finger' that only occur in sentences that are somehow
<q>negative</q>.  NPIs have puzzled linguists working in syntax,
semantics and pragmatics, but no final conclusion as to which module
of the grammar should be responsible for the licensing has been
reached.  Within HPSG interest in NPI has developed only relatively
recently and is mainly inspired by the entailment-based approach of
Ladusaw 1980 and Zwarts 1997.  Since HPSG's CONTENT value is a
semantic representation, the integration of such a denotational theory
cannot be done directly.  Adopting Discourse Representation Theory
(DRT, Kamp and Reyle 1993, von Genabith et al. 2004) I show that it is
possible to formulate a theory of NPI licensing that uses purely
representational notions.  In contrast to most other frameworks in
semantics, DRT attributes theoretical significance to the
representation of meaning, i.e. to a <q>logical form</q>, and not only to
the denotation itself.  This makes DRT particularly well-suited to my
purpose.


Samvelian, Pollet # 0000-0002-6622-4117 # Université de Paris 3 & CNRS # A lexical account of Sorani Kurdish prepositions # 2007-10-15 # #
In Sorani Kurdish dialects, the complement of a preposition can generally be realized either as a
syntactic item (NP, independent pronoun or PP) or a bound personal morpheme (clitic/affix). However,
the affixal realization of the complement gives rise to a range of specific phenomena. First, some
prepositions display two different phonological forms depending on the realization of their
complement: the variant combining with a syntactic item is referred to as `simple', while the
variant combining with an affixal complement is called `absolute'. Furthermore, unlike syntactic
complements, which are always realized locally, the affixal complement of an absolute preposition
can have a non-local realization, attaching to a host with which it has no morphosyntactic
relations. In order to deal with these facts, this paper proposes a classification of Sorani
prepositions along two lines: the affixal versus non-affixal realization of the complement on the
one hand and its local versus non-local realization on the other hand. All cases of non-local
realization receive a lexical account, either in terms of argument composition or in terms of
linearization constraints on domain objects.


Song, Sanghoun & Choe, Jae-Woong # 0000-0002-4234-232X & 0000-0001-5224-2229 # Korea University # Type hierarchies for passive forms in Korean # 2007-10-15 # #
This paper aims to provide type hierarchies for Korean passive constructions on the basis of their
forms within the HPSG framework. The type hierarchies proposed in this paper are based on the
classification of Korean passives; suffixal passives, auxiliary passives, inherent passives, and
passive light verb constructions. Verbs are divided into five subtypes in accordance with the
possibility of passivization. We also provide type hierarchies for verbal nouns and passive light
verbs.


Tseng, Jesse # mailed # CNRS & Université de Toulouse II # English prepositional passive constructions # 2007-10-15 # #
An empirical overview of the properties of English prepositional
passives is presented, followed by a discussion of formal approaches
to the analysis of the various types of prepositional passives in
HPSG. While a lexical treatment is available, the significant number
of technical and conceptual difficulties encountered point to an
alternative approach relying on constructional constraints. The
constructional approach is argued to be the best option for
prepositional passives involving adjunct PPs, and this analysis can be
extended to create a hierarchy of constructions accommodating all
types of prepositional passives in English, and the ordinary NP
passive.


Wang, Lulu & Liu, Haitao # mailed & mailed # Communication University of China # A description of Chinese NPs using Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar # 2007-10-15 # #
This paper aims at making a general description of Chinese NPs using Head-Driven Phrase Structure
Grammar. The paper introduces the basic and complex structures of Chinese NPs and then shed light on
the noun-classifier matching problem when implemented in HPSG. To solve this problem, the paper
tries to establish a basic grammar of Chinese NPs in the framework of HPSG, which is implemented in
the LKB system. The implementation shows, although the matching problem between noun and classifier
can be described in HPSG, especially by the MRS, it is still difficult to efficiently represent the
semantic constrains in the LKB system.


Webelhuth, Gert # 0000-0001-7510-1736 # University of Göttingen # Complex topic-comment structures in HPSG # 2007-10-14 # #
Based on Krifka (1992) and de Kuthy (2000), this paper develops an
architecture for complex topic-comment structures in HPSG and applies it to
predicate fronting in English with the goal of capturing the insights of Ward
(1988) on this construction. We argue that predicate fronting is a distributed
constructional form consisting of an auxiliary occurring in a predicate preposing
phrase. The use of predicate preposing is a function of a combination of
simultaneous constraints on its theme structure, its background-focus distribution,
and its presuppositional structure. It is shown that these constraints
can be made explicit within the HPSG architecture developed here.


Yatabe, Shûichi # 0000-0003-2092-6073 # University of Tokyo # Evidence for the linearization-based theory of semantic composition # 2007-10-15 # #
The result of questionnaire studies are presented which shows
(i) that conjuncts are scope islands in Japanese and (ii) that left-node
raising can nullify such scope islands.  This finding confirms the theory
advanced in Yatabe (2001), in which semantic composition is
almost entirely carried out within order domains, and arguably contradicts
the theory proposed in Beavers and Sag (2004), which introduces a mechanism
called Optional Quantifier Merger to deal with the fact that right-node raising
and left-node raising can have semantic effects.






 

